Amend PDUs to support multiple helpers (#135)
abetterinternet/prio-documents: draft-pda-protocol.md

Time uint64; /* seconds elapsed since start of UNIX epoch */
~~~

> * `uuid`: A unique sequence of bytes used to ensure that two otherwise

Reviewer: I wouldn't call this "uuid" because then some IETF nitpicker will complain that it's not actually a UUID.

Maybe ```task_nonce```

Author: I agree, but I think `struct Param` will go away altogether when someone (perhaps me, later this week) addresses #104, and we will be left with nothing but `task_id`. So I prefer to leave this text alone until it gets deleted in that PR (except, I guess, to delete this extra space).

  identical `Param` instances will have distinct `TaskID`s. It is
  RECOMMENDED that this be set to a random 16-byte string derived from a
  cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator.
* `aggregator_endpoints`: Vector of URLs relative to which an aggregator's API

>   endpoints can be found. The leader's endpoint MUST be the first in the vector.
>   The order in which aggregators appear in this vector MUST be consistent with
>   the order of the encrypted input shares in a `Report` (see
>   {{uploading-reports}}).

Reviewer: I would rewrite this because it's the reports which have to be consistent with this:
```suggestion
  endpoints can be found. The leader's endpoint MUST be the first in the vector.
  The order in encrypted input shares in a `Report` (see
  {{uploading-reports}}) MUST be the same as the
  order in which aggregators appear in this vector.
```

* `proto`: The PPM protocol, e.g., Prio or Hits. The rest of the structure
  contains the protocol specific parameters.

An `Aggregator` is structured as follows:

~~~
struct {
  AggregatorId id;
  Url endpoint;
} Aggregator;

> uint8 AggregatorId;

Reviewer: I would consider making this larger. I could imagine there being > 256 aggregators.

Reviewer: Would it actually make sense to not have an integer in this field and only in the submissions, and just have those values refer to indexes here.

Author: I agree, there's no reason not to make this a 64 bit integer (or even a much longer byte string as I suggest in another thread on this PR). However I'm not sure if we want the IDs in other messages to refer to indexes here, because that imposes the new constraint on aggregator IDs that they be sequential, which is not required with the current `Aggregator` definition.

AggregatorId leader_aggregator_id = 0;

opaque Url<1..2^16-1>;
~~~

* `id`: An identifier for the aggregator, used in HPKE encryption and which
  allows participants to resolve entries in `Param.aggregators` against values
  in vectors in other protocol messages. The same `AggregatorId`s MUST be used

>   when consturcting other messages containing vectors with one value for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when constructing other messages containing vectors with one value for each
```

  aggregator (e.g., `Report.encrypted_input_shares` in {{uploading-reports}}).

>   Each aggregator knows its own `id`. `id` values must be unique in a `Param`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Each aggregator knows its own `id`. `id` values MUST be unique in a `Param`.
  A `Param` structure with duplicate `id` values is considered malformed and MUST
  be ignored by clients.
```

>   Each aggregator knows its own `id`. `id` values must be unique in a `Param`.

Reviewer: Why do aggregators need to know their ID?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Each aggregator knows its own `id`. `id` values must be unique in a `Param` but may have different meanings in different Params.
```

Reviewer 2: > Why do aggregators need to know their ID?

This is a fair question -- it seems like the aggregator ID is only used to coordinate messages, and might not need to be included in the AAD.

Author: Yes, an aggregator only needs to know its own ID to put in the AAD when establishing HPKE context. That is also why I made that field `uint8`, to match the previous leader/helper `server_role` values. However we could also make the aggregator ID into a longer string of bytes, allowing the values to be human readable strings, which I think will be nice for logging purposes. But it sounds like you are doubting the value of including server role in the AAD at all? I would think that since a given aggregator could be acting as either a leader or a helper in different protocol instantiations, and maybe using the same HPKE config for both, including server role diversifies keys across protocol instantiations. Then again, if that's the goal, then we should probably also mix in the `Param.uuid` since `aggregator_id` values could be re-used across different protocol instantiations.

So my take here is we should:

* define `opaque AggregatorId<1..256>;`
* use `enc, context = SetupBase(S|R)(pk, "pda input share" || Param.uuid || aggregator_id)` and `enc, context = SetupBaseS(pk, "pda output share" || Param.uuid || aggregator_id)`

But I will defer to the superior crypto brains of @chris-wood and @ekr ... should we just drop `server_role`/`aggregator_id` from the HPKE application info?

Author: Or we could go back to leader = `0x00` / helper = `0x01` in the info, which has the virtue of not entangling our mechanism for coordinating messages with our mechanism for key diversity, but then we will have to revisit the question of what application info should be provided by helpers beyond the first one, if and when we introduce multiple helpers. My goal in introducing the aggregator_id into the AAD was to avoid such a disruptive change.

Reviewer 2: FWIW, I'd drop it from the AAD, and then mark an open issue asking whether or not we believe it's important to authenticate. (My impression is that this is not important to authenticate.)

* `endpoint`: The URL relative to which an aggregator's API endpoints can be
  found.
* `leader_aggregator_id` is a reserved `AggregatorId` identifying the leader.
  `leader_aggregator_id` MUST occur exactly once among the `aggregators` in a

>   `Param`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `Param`. A `Param` structure without the `leader_aggregator_id` is considered malformed
   and MUST be ignored by clients.
```

* `proto`: The PPM protocol, e.g., Prio or Hits. The rest of the structure
  contains the protocol specific parameters.

An `Aggregator` is structured as follows:

~~~
struct {
  AggregatorId id;
  Url endpoint;
} Aggregator;

uint64 AggregatorId;

> AggregatorId leader_aggregator_id = 0;

Reviewer 2: How would this value (of zero) different from having the leader appear first (also a value of zero)?

Where param is just the serialization of Param.

> ## Uploading Reports {#uploading-reports}

Reviewer: FYI, you don't need this. kramdown automatically creates anchors by doing tr/A-Z /a-z\-/.

Clients periodically upload reports to the leader, which then distributes
the individual shares to each helper.

### Key Configuration Request {#key-config}

Before the client can upload its report to the leader, it must know the public
key of each of the aggregators. These are retrieved from each aggregator by
sending a request to `[aggregator]/key_config`, where `[aggregator]` is the

> aggregator's endpoint URL, provided in the `Param`. The aggregator responds to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aggregator's endpoint URL, provided in the `Param` for the task. The aggregator responds to
```

Where param is just the serialization of Param.

## Uploading Reports {#uploading-reports}

Clients periodically upload reports to the leader, which then distributes
the individual shares to each helper.

### Key Configuration Request {#key-config}

Before the client can upload its report to the leader, it must know the keys of
each of the aggregators. These are retrieved from each aggregator by sending a

> request to `Param.aggregators[i].endpoint/key_config` for `0 <= i <

Author: I guess I'm not sure how clearly an RFC needs to spell out things like this for implementors. I agree it was pretty clear before so I think I'll put it back.

[TODO: Decide whether to use the same config structure as OHTTP/ECH. This would
add support for multiple cipher suites.]

> The client aborts if any of the following happen for any `key_config` request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client MUST abort if any of the following happen for any `key_config` request:
```

### Upload Request

Let `[leader]` be the first entry in `Param.aggregators`. Clients upload reports

> by using an HTTP POST to `[leader]/upload`. The payload is structured as

Reviewer: FWIW, I prefer the phrasing before. "Let" is a bit stilted.

* `extensions` is a list of extensions to be included in the Upload flow; see
  {{upload-extensions}}.
* `encrypted_input_shares` contains the encrypted input shares of each of the
  aggregators. The order in which the encrypted input shares appear MUST match
  the order of the `aggregator_endpoints` in the `Param` corresponding to
  `task_id` (i.e., the first share should be the leader's, the second share

>   should be for the second aggregator, and so on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  should be for the first helper, and so on).
```

{{!I-D.irtf-cfrg-hpke}} context for the aggregator by running

~~~

> enc, context = SetupBaseS(pk, "pda input share" || aggregator_id)

Reviewer: Actually, why do we need this field at all?

(See {{anti-replay}}.)

The response is an HTTP 200 OK with a body consisting of the helper's updated
state and a sequence of *sub-responses*, where the j-th sub-response corresponds
to the j-th sub-request for each `1 <= j <= len(AggregateReq.seq)`. The

> structure of each sub-response is specific to the PPM protocol:

Reviewer: This bit of mathiness seems a bit confusing. Instead of expanding the formula, I would consider "where each subresponse corresponds to the sub-request in the same position in AggregateReq"
